I am going to create a game that involves taking care of a pet companion by feeding, cradling, playing with, ignoring, and petting it. The user will have a choice of what kind of a pet they want (dog, cat, bird, fish, rabbit, hamster, snake, lizard, or pony). The user will be able to chose from these actions through buttons on the user interface. The pet will have different reactions to these gestures, such as happiness, sadness, sleepiness, and boredom. There will also be a timer in the code keeping track of the amount of time passed since the last time the user fed it, which it will respond to with hunger. This idea is simulating a basic AI using a state machine.
I want the user interface to look aesthetically-pleasing, easy to use, and resemble the pet animal games on the Nintendo DS. I am going to have to figure out how to arrange the user interface and apply customs and materials to it. I am also going to have to figure out how to clearly express to the user the way the pet is feeling so they can apply the appropriate action. Some features that I may want to add include more options for pets, actions the user can take, and more reactions of the pet. Different pets may have different food preferences and actions to take care of it. I am going to have to figure out how to apply one pet possibly at a time (when one pet is chosen, the others are not visible and the user cannot interact with them). When using the state machine, the pet may have a mixture of reactions to an action, so I'll have to assign appropriate reactions to the user's actions. 
